# What is the difference between push, pull, and fetch?

[Git](https://git-scm.com/) provides several options for synchronizing your remote and local branches:

- `git push` - Uploads changes from a local branch to a remote repository.
- `git fetch` - Downloads changes from a remote repository to your tracking branch.
- `git pull` - Fetches and then merges changes into a local branch.

Often `git push` and `git pull` are described as equivalent. This isn't entirely correct, since `git pull` does two things. `git push` takes our current branch, and checks to see whether or not there is a tracking branch for a remote repository connected to it. If there is a tracking branch, Git takes the changes from our branch and pushes them to the remote branch. This is how you share code with a remote repository, you can think of it as "make the remote branch resemble my local branch". `git push` fails if the remote branch has diverged from your local branch: if not all the commits in the remote branch are in your local branch. When this happens, you must synchronize your local branch with the remote branch with `git pull` or `git fetch` and `git merge`.`git fetch` again takes our current branch, and checks to see if there is a tracking branch. If so, it looks for changes in the remote branch, and pulls them into the tracking branch. It does not change your local branch. To do that, must perform `git merge origin/master` (for the "master" branch) to merge those changes into your branch - probably also called "master".`git pull` simply does a `git fetch` followed immediately by `git merge`. This is often what we desire to do, but some people prefer to use `git fetch` followed by `git merge` to make sure they understand the changes they are merging into their branch before the merge happens.
